# R summary
- install [RStudio][1] (convenient R programming surface)
	- first you have to install R (the programming language) on your system. (follow the instructions on the download page), then you can install RStudio.
- you need to install additional R-packages (libraries) to excercise the tasks in class, e.g. the package "stylo".
- if you open RStudio, you have left down your console window, where you can input commands directly. i would recommend open a new R-script *datei \> neu \> R-script* to be able to save your commands and automatise your workflow. to execute a command in the script, place the cursor at the line including your command and press *CMD+return (mac) or CTRL+return (windows)*. to execute a command in the terminal window, just type it in there and press *return*.
- first command e.g. 
```r
install.packages("stylo")
```
- then:
```r
library(stylo)
```
- mac users at this point may see a message saying you have to install XQuartz. do so, open the link provided and install XQuartz for your system. (it is a small window server which is needed to display the GUI stylo is using.
	- if you in the course of installing R, RStudio or XQuartz are asked if you want to install the XCode developer tools, you can deny that since it takes a while and is about 12GB diskspace and you probably wont need this.
- to see where you're at, type 
```r
getwd()
#this will show you your current working directory.
#any saving or opening files without an absolute
#path will access this directory.
```
- you can change your working directory with
```r
setwd("/path/to/your/preferred/dir")
```
- or by navigating to that directory in the right bottom window, clicking the zahnrad and choose: *set as working directory*

try the following snippet to find plays containing a certain name/character in question:

```r
#13266.dracor simple request
library(jsonlite)
einakter <- fromJSON("https://einakter.dracor.org/data.json")
#fetch dataset from dracor server

m<-einakter$printed=="NULL"
sum(m)
einakter$printed[m]<-NA

#build dataframe of name in question
spitcast<-function(set,cast){
  ndf<-data.frame()
  m<-grepl(cast,set$cast)
  print(sum(m))
  m<-grep(cast,set$cast)
  s<-data.frame(author=set$author$name[m],year=unlist(set$printed[m]),title=set$title[m])
  print(s)
  return(s)
}

name_to_analyse<-"Lisette"
ndf<-spitcast(einakter,name_to_analyse)

#print out first 5 elements of dataframe
head(ndf)
```

you can export the dataframe created above (ndf) with the following line, either to .csv or excel:

```r

#either:
library(writexl)
write_xlsx(ndf,"dracor_names-analysed_dataframe.xlsx")

#or:
write.csv(ndf,"dracor_names-analysed_dataframe.csv")
```

this will save the dataframe into your working directory.

[1]:	https://posit.co